welcome everyone to this live stream
from MIT lab you can actually see things
happening behind me I'm in the research
center and I just had this most amazing
tour of the facilities this is so so
cool guys yeah I just want to start with
saying how excited I am I just seeing
robots like all kinds of robots that you
can think of like dog Roberts or a robot
that you you give you a mom welcome to
that robot and he will notify you of
what's happening what's going on
I've just seen these smart cameras that
can track your pal that can't help some
kind I'm an MIT hey hey hey yeah hello
everyone I see a lot of people joining
us let's test the connection and when
testing the connection can you please
tell me where are you from and which
program you want to enroll into so that
I would have the idea if I should talk
about bachelor's or master's so if you
could like write like for example Russia
PhD or India bachelors that would be
great
yes yeah it's gonna be in English guys
so I know there are many Russian
subscribers watching as well but this is
going to be in in English because we see
India here Colombia Mexico hello
Indonesia yeah if you could guys you
tell me which which program you're
applying to India Bachelor Kazakhstan
Taiwan Pakistan India bachelor's has its
own hello glad rationale masters India
MBA Russia okay India masters okay in
the NBA I guess I'm going to be talking
about all of those programs today I'm
going to Berkeley PhD computer science
from pair of bachelors India okay well
again so many countries Czech Republic
Ukraine Columbia masters in marketing
definitely so I think Oh China
hello China I like that you're using VPN
to access my live streams
German master's degree Brazil okay wow
so many people guys thank you so much
for joining me I think this is gonna be
a very very interesting livestream
because yeah as I see my background I'm
live-streaming from MIT lab I'm going to
show you a little how it looks like so
this is where scientists and researchers
work they have their own rooms and every
team is responsible for some particular
project about all the formulas and
yesterday I posted this picture an
instructor I reached out to me you know
he found out that I was an MIT and he
said I'm a researcher here please come
by and and he just gave us a tour and he
showed us all of the amazing things
going on in MIT team and you get this
feeling here is really happening here
and all of the coolest technology like
for example Amazon Kindle it has this
amazing screen which uses a little
battery and it's also very good here
eyes so this screen this ink was
invented in MIT also Google glass the
first version was invented here
this guitar game and I forgot how it's
called the magic guitar or something
it's also invented in MIT so there are
so many things that have been made
invented in this particular building and
this is all very inspiring and today I
wanted to talk to you about getting into
such top universities as Harvard MIT
Stanford and you know because these
universities if you looked at any
ranking they would be top five like for
example MIT is the second best
university in the States but there are
also different rankings like the first
ranking I would advise you to look at is
called to US News calm and in this
ranking you would be able to see
somebody's reading about bad connection
guys if you know bad connection maybe
you could reload because I haven't seen
any more complaints
yeah what we'll have we'll have some
time for questions and see a lot of
questions so yeah and you if you are
interested in some particular program I
advise you to look at the ranking for
that particular program so for example
if you're looking for bachelors in
computer science what you do you go to
google and you type in bachelors in
computer science ranking and you will
get all of the different websites that
that are going to tell you which
University is the best one because for
example I would guess if you type in
computer science you should be the first
but if you talk I've been I don't know
economics MIT wouldn't be the first so
then the subjects you want on a steady
path see you for example if you're
studying through science or medicine at
MIT you would get access to those
amazing labs and also if you're a
researcher then your research would be
basically funded by MIT and by companies
that are donors here so I just found out
that actually Amazon Google has legal
those companies pay more than two
hundred thousand dollars every year just
to you know be part of the community and
be aware of what's happening in the
scientific world and also if they pay
more and they can take little stakes of
the inventions of the eyepiece that I
actually produced here okay poor
connection guys it's no it's ok ok I
hope it stays well I'm I'm pretty sure
it's it's a good connection here so
maybe maybe something is wrong with you
on that work but I really don't know so
let me know if it gets like really
really low then I can change the room
but I hope it stays good for the whole
webinar
ok so uh the next thing getting admitted
so imagine that you've chosen the
universities and also another thing that
you should remember is never go all in
so don't go to just one university if
your goal is to get this education get
this master's degree okay this PhD
degree then
to diversify the choice of your
universities so I would have a device to
apply to five or six universities and
choose them in a way that two of the
universities that you choose are top
universities for example okay MIT
Harvard and then third and fourth
university should be a little lower
ranking because your chances of getting
there are higher and the fifth and six
University should be something that you
know if you don't get anywhere then
you're pretty sure you're gonna get to
those universities so your safety
schools and this makes it easier for you
to actually get an admitted because
eventually your goal is to get that
education and if you're applying to six
like Harvard MIT Stanford MBA Yale then
your chances of getting it and make sure
you two first to file your universities
portfolios so once you know were you
getting you should also look consider
your budget because top schools are
really really expensive if we take for
example bachelor's degree it could cost
around $40,000 a year to study if we
take master's degree it could take
around you know $60,000 per year just
the tuition fees and make sure if you
don't have that money make sure that the
university provides financial aid for
international or local students as well
and you can find out just by reading to
the admissions comedian asking hey I was
wondering if you provide financial aid
or whatever and also give some
information about your background
because I am sure you're they get any
hundreds of emails every day from people
asking for financial aid for asking
admissions questions I just actually
I've just been to the admissions
committee of Harvard and I was sitting
there and this was this lady she was
answering the phone and I heard that
there were international students
calling they were asking like can I take
a us instead of TOEFL or how do I
calculate my GPA and she was actually
helping them so don't be afraid to
contact the University and they are all
working here they receiving this salary
to help you get admitted to help you get
the information that you need so really
take that opportunity and connect with
universities ask them questions don't go
just you know blindly applying there but
also another very important thing I've
recently posted it in my social networks
is that every communication with the top
university is considered part of your
application so all of you emails that
you're exchanging with admissions
committee all of the interactions like
visiting webinars or attending the fairs
that a university organizes everything
comes towards your application
and so make sure that you don't have any
spelling mistakes in your letters that
you are asking questions that you cannot
get answered to just by looking at the
website because University we really
thorough for example I think Stanford's
website has anything that you need like
lonely even with this letter to
university asking oh what exam should I
take in order to get in because
everything is listed in the admissions
so don't waste your time don't waste
their time make sure you're asking for
information that couldn't be found in
their website ah now you know the
university is where you want to get into
you figure out whether you need the
financial aid or not and the next thing
you need to do is make sure you're
taking all of the exams that I needed so
for example if we're talking about
bachelors please don't
okay I'm gonna block users who are
posting the same messages because
otherwise I wouldn't be able to see
other people
hello best connection again guys can you
please tell me if you can hear me no
best connection it looks looks fine um
it's fine okay okay great
Road connection and fine for a
connection fine connection is good okay
I think your shows done thank you okay
okay I won't be talking slower you can
get okay great thank you thank you so
much
loud and clear in India great so if
we're talking about bachelors and if
we're talking about top universities the
first test you should consider taking is
SAT SAT is a test that tests your
abilities in maths and analyzing texts
and basic your English abilities as well
and then it really depends on your
subjects that you're going to study so
if you want to study mathematics then
probably MIT or Harvard or the top
universities would ask you to take SAT
Subject Tests and they could ask to take
like SAT and physics SAT in math -
whatever the only exception would be
subjects that I can act it with art so
if you want to do for example bachelors
painting bachelors an art
they would have been written but they
would carefully look at your portfolio
because top universities they want you
to study the subjects you want to study
even before you're getting into that
universe then they want to see your
portfolio or you know if your interest
in photography or on the pictures that
you've taken so architecture I think
they would require SAT in mathematics
because architecture advanced
mathematics really again really depends
on the university so you really need to
study the admissions section of the
University and make sure you're taking
all the proper tests and what I advise
you to do is make this Google
spreadsheet and put in all of the
universities they're getting into and
put in all the tests that you need to
take because it would be really sad if
you would need to take SAT maths SAT in
physics just for one University because
it requires a lot of preparation the
ideal version of your of the
universities that you get into it
requires just one test for example SAT
or who we're talking about master's
degree them is just Jerry or just GMAT
because taking several tests is also
very stressful because if your
international students and I see that a
lot of international students are
watching this right now you would also
need to take TOEFL which is an English
exam and again a lot of stress so
professionals degree again you need to
figure out the test we need to figure
out what are you writing in your essay
and yeah then for master's degree it's
basically the same the only difference
is that for master's degree you either
take GRE or GMAT or again if it's a
subject connected with art then you
don't take any exam you just show your
portfolio for PhD you either take GRE or
GMAT and then also you need to show that
you've done some research you have to
propose your research topic and the best
way to get into a PhD nectar professor
before you apply so if you have this
confirmation from a professor who tells
the admissions committee hey I've
already talked to that student and he's
doing an amazing
research and I really want to work
and then 9 testing of us and I think all
over the world they have funded really
well funded by the government me
something as a researcher here at MIT
and basically been working there
sponsoring his research which is great
because this this is more eh needs more
like work not a little more like studies
you also have lectures but you spend the
majority of time working with your
professor working their advisor and
making your own research yeah yes and
another thing that you should pay
attention to our admissions deadlines
application deadlines so for top
universities uh you should apply a year
prior to selling your studies so for
example if you want to start studying in
September 2018 you would need to apply
in September 2017 and this means that by
September 2017 you would need to have
all of your tests taken all of your
essays written everything ready in
application and my estimation so I have
been applying to some so I have been
applying to I applied to Johns Hopkins
University which is considered a top
university and I would say that applying
to such a top university requires a lot
of your time and my application to Johns
Hopkins took me around two weeks because
first thing the application itself like
the questionnaire that they ask you to
fill in it has a hundred of questions
they can they not only ask you about
your address your hobby your past
education they can also ask you like can
you describe yourselves in 20 words or
what is your favorite food and then you
get confused like what is the best
answer to that question so really take
your time I would say for top university
take around two weeks to prepare your
application to prepare your essay also
leave some time to connect with your
recommenders and make sure they're not
writing some letter about how
great you have this program we're really
telling and this thing about topping
university again when you're
you're ready make sure that you are up
no stories because they're gonna ask you
like tell tell us what matters most to
you and why and here you don't have to
go into you know telling how you want
this piece in the world or you want
people to look forever go into those
particular stories that influence your
choice that helped you realize what
really matters to you and if they if
you're preparing for an interview which
is a second step of your application
process make sure you have all of those
stories in your head because they're
going to ask you a little behavioral
questions okay bad connections let's
let's wait for for a minute for the
connection to get better I'm sorry guys
I really asked the MIT students and they
said the connection should be perfect so
let's wait just a moment hope it gets
better yeah keep coming since fine okay
great so let's get to the interview
stage so once you submitted all of your
applications
hopefully it was in September yes I'm in
MIT okay you submitted all of your
applications in September
you should hear from the admissions
committee by November whether they
invite you to the interview or not for
the majority of top universities the
interview would be an obligatory stage
of your application process and they
wouldn't be able to admit you if they
haven't had an interview with you so
once they invite you to the interview
it's very common for students to travel
to the University to take me in to me
personally you can also do it on skype
or sometimes universities travel to
different locations so if we're talking
about Harvard for example their
admissions committee would travel around
the world to meet the applicants if
we're talking about Stanford
you would be interviewing with with a
good alumni so for example if you're
from India they would find somebody who
graduated from Stanford in India and
they would connect you to that guy and
he would interview for the school that
you're applying to
and what about our and you felt pushed
back or when you felt like everything is
going wrong and how you behaved in that
situation but again although the
interviews are different I had this
interview with Wisconsin Madison
University and I thought it's gonna be
behavioral interviews so they I thought
they would just ask me those questions
like tell me about a time when something
happened what what but then they started
asking me those questions about
economics and you know all of the terms
that I used in economics and this was my
mistake I didn't really prepare for that
interview so make sure you read
carefully was gonna be happening in the
interview Oh change your location that
connection I'm so sorry guys um you know
let's wait awhile again till it goes
away I'm really sorry yeah maybe I could
go to the I'm just just not sure it
should be one one same network yeah okay
can I hear from you guys whether it's
it's okay now okay connections okay okay
thank you
thanks I'm so sorry but this video is
going to be recorded it's gonna it's
gonna stay on this channel so you'll be
able to see it again um also another
thing that you should know is that the
best the best time to apply is September
and so a year before you study your
studies but there are also two more
deadlines the second deadline would be
around January and this is when you can
apply again but you should understand
that by the second deadline 40% of the
class is already filled and if we're
talking about a business school for
example every business school aims to
have students from different backgrounds
so for example they need to have 10%
entrepreneurs 10% consultants 10% law
and if you're blind during the second
round there's big chance that they've
already have they already have those 10%
lawyers and if you're a lawyer you
wouldn't get in so o increases your
chances of getting accepted machine you
have this dilemma if you need more time
to prepare for your exams to prepare for
your essays then it's better to take
your time but if you don't you know if
you're prepared then it's better to
apply it during the round one um okay
let's let's take some time for the
questions because I see a lot of
interesting questions here what a GRE
minimum score said is find the
requirements get admitted to masters
okay guys all of the questions like
regarding the minimum Jerry I would say
the best way to answer this question is
to find a university where they say that
the average area is something that
you've already got it's it's possible to
find the university even for a low Jerry
or it's it's even possible to find the
university but doesn't require Jerry for
particular master's program but then you
need to decide whether you're okay with
a lower ranking University for example
if you haven't scored enough or if it's
better for you to wait another year
maybe we take a cherry and apply to a
higher ranking University what's the
minimum cherry score that's a good
question that Nick is asking what's the
minimum cherry score for architecture
masters it's not mentioned on the
university webpages
um the thing is they never give you the
minimum score for GRE si but for SAT
they might get but for GRE and GMAT they
would never give you the minimum score
and the reason behind that is they
understand there are people who are
really bad at standardized tests and you
can be bad at a standardized test but
you can be a genius you can you know you
can could have sold your company for a
couple of million last year or you could
have been invented this algorithm that
changes the whole world and they don't
want to miss those people who are really
bad and take a standardized test we're
geniuses themselves so they don't
minimum score for that and if you feel
you have accomplishments that are
outstanding you sent out of the
applicants crown of that then apply with
a low Jerry but if you don't think that
you are exceptional or something
then you can always just check for the
Jerry for the last class there is such
thing called
average class profile and you can find
it in any University and they would tell
you what happened last year and they
gonna tell you like last year we had
applicants whose median GMAT score was
for example 700 and their GPA was around
3.4 and on average they had two years of
work experience and this is what you
need to look at you need to look at the
average class profile and compare
yourself and see like okay my GPA
slightly higher my GMAT is slightly
lower I think I have this 50% chance of
getting in and if you had those doubts
then make sure your essay really stands
out make sure you put a lot of effort
into writing great story which is
interesting to read make sure that
you're telling all of those you know
funny facts or interesting facts about
your in your essay what can you say
about oh there was a question about
sunny college sunny college is good
I think they couldn't with transference
especially within the New York area
scholarships are provided before
admissions are after admission
okay so scholarships are provided to
those people who qualify there are
several types of scholarships the first
type is married based so if you have
good grades if you have high exam scores
then you could qualify for a scholarship
and normally they would tell you whether
you you have received that scholarship
or not they would tell you during what
when actually when they release the
decision so what I have for example the
University of Florida they send me the
decision they told me hey marina we
we're accepting you to the program
you're applying for and we're also
giving you the station assistantship
position and there was some way to
negotiate with them
afterwards as well so ask them for
additional funding because the genie
assistantship funding wasn't really
covering my living costs so I asked them
whether it is possible to open no money
they would get me or you haven't got
funding during in this admissions ladder
scroll okay
I'm sesh hearing taking part in various
competitions for it's vital for the US
universities yes all of the extra
extracurricular activities are very
important and make sure you mention all
of them in your resume or in your
application because top American
universities are really looking for
extraordinary people who are active in
all of the different fields not like
you're just studying all the time they
also want to see you taking part in
different clubs taking funny
competitions
another thing about sports if you have
great accomplishments in sports for
example you've won something in your
city or in your country you can also be
considered for sports scholarships and
this happens because all of the top
universities compete with each other
they have this baseball game where MIT
is fighting against Harvard and that
also affects their rankings so they want
the best sportsman to study in their
universities and to play for their teams
and if you qualify they can tell you
that we're gonna cover your tuition fees
but in exchange please play for our team
which is great I think if you're really
into sports perfect response about the
minimum scores thank you okay oh wow
so many questions sorry guys it all
dropped down if you have a TOEFL Jerry
scores less than in quiet can I mention
it in my statement of purpose Marvin is
asking this question Thank You Marvin
for this question like as I said
Jiri there is no minimum score normally
but if there is
um I would say you would probably not
get it and uh also we say have a minimum
score who should be minimum 90 uh if you
have a it would reject your application
I didn't even say I have of this 25 GPA
I think spearing isn't right for a big
consultant just making this up but and
then mention your draw bevel Latoya and
my Cheerios like 10 points lower do you
think I have a chance of getting
admitted and I would say what I've seen
from my practice normally if your total
is below what they require they would
say your English is not enough to
understand the academic material that
will be giving you so please retake your
TOEFL and apply again or apply later
Pajero rescore it's really rare that
they require a minimum score so you
would need yes you could explain at your
Giri your low Jerri score and your essay
uh but yet if it's both dumpling Jerri
that could be a little tough thank you
English is the most important for study
zigfried I was a critic from Germany
no English is not the most important
english it's obligatory if you don't
have English there is there's no chance
you're getting in so English is number
one requirement and this is even on
discussable your English should be great
because everybody speaks English here
and if you don't understand what people
tell you that would be you know a
drawback for you so English is number
one requirement but it's I wouldn't say
so well it is important but it's not the
most important because I this should be
like Americans don't learn English to
get into university they just have it
and then you have to be academically
really strong you need to show that you
have great academic potential they would
also
charge your future performance based on
your path aspects formerly your exam
scores your resume where you show what
you've done like all of that volunteer
work all the competitions
oh good questions from cigar he is
asking whether the university rectors
when it comes to get I would say yes and
the merit absolutely University in the
USA if that up pretty nice mmm I see
your hair huh but be knows
so it's universities and this gives you
privilege it gives you an advantage
students for example I don't know
pudding
ranked number 75 and university ranked
number 120 this wouldn't really make
difference because there are the top
universities and all of the rest so hope
this answers your question have you
taken IELTS what do you think how
different hoechlin else are so IELTS is
a little easier in terms of speaking
part because you're actually talking to
human but you can get some problems with
American universities because not
everybody hear it but everybody steps
TOEFL how can I get in MIT as I said
select a program check out their
admissions requirements take all the
necessary tests and make sure your
application is pretty strong because the
chances to get into MIT are around 10%
so out of every 10 people for apply just
one gets in which is pretty tough um
what kind of person do for masters in
marketing for me okay sorry
yeah Chhavi is it yes yeah Shashtri
sorry I didn't get your question but if
you're getting into a math just program
from the UK that's time to die as test
cheerio I wore for my kidding that will
be GMAT Oh NIC is thanking me for my
TOEFL videos because he scored 110 and
congressional relations NIC that's great
I say such things so yes I run to that
question
okay Michael is asking this question
about recommendation letters so the
question is is it okay to write
recommendations for yourself off with
just collaboration of your managers so
here's the thing guys of course
universities want your managers and your
recommenders to write the letters
themselves but what I experienced myself
is that my professors from my University
they just told me Oh marina we don't
speak any English just write the letters
for yourself and we just
that's the reality this is not the best
thing you can do because recommendation
letters purpose is for somebody to
evaluate you to evaluate you from the
position of you know from position of
professor from position manager and give
those unique stories again like the
purpose of recommendation letters for
other people to share stories where show
how you behaved how you present in
yourself and if your professor or your
manager it doesn't speak English then
the best way to do this is to sit down
with him and say hey um you need to
answer this in this question for my
recommendation letter maybe we could
think of some stories together maybe you
could give some insights about my
behavior and then you write it down and
then make him check this essay whether
it's okay or not but really if you're
writing all of them for yourself then
it's very likely that the admissions
commedia are going to see it because
you're going to be talking about the
same stories or talking about the same
aspect so yeah that would be my answer
to this question when does the admission
process start for undergrad it's ours
it's September in those top universities
so I hear preparing to apply for an
American top university you should
really start thinking about that two
years to your application office sorry
two years prior to the sort of studies
because as I said you need to apply one
year before you start studying and then
you would need around the year to pass
all the standardized tests so make sure
your GPA is high enough to make sure you
have all of the essays written in a gray
manner and all of that what if I put up
application til September 2017 skip one
year after graduating high school and
plan to apply to the Union oh okay so
Lucas is asking these questions about
taking a gap year it's totally fine I
it's very common among Americans to take
this year of traveling a work experience
before they actually go into the
University and you can present it in a
really good way in your admissions
letter you can tell them hey I just
graduated from school and I didn't know
what I really wanted to do because I
didn't have any sense of who the real
life so I decided to travel to volunteer
or to work for this big company to make
sure this is exactly what I want like if
you really want to study economics then
go and work and some you know big
company or a small company just make
sure that you're doing the right thing
and you can present that in your
motivation letter and say hey I just
wanted to experience the real world and
then make this decision about my
university life which place is good for
MBA in finance my academics are average
MBA in finance you know the best MBA in
finance would be Harvard and Chicago
Booth University they're really strong a
finance there's Wharton Business School
but they are all top universities
check out University of Florida they
have ranked number 30 I don't know well
I don't know what exactly your academics
look like but if you're at GPA is around
3.5 you have good chances everywhere
it's just the matter of your G you match
it should be seven hundred plus for top
30 to 40 universities whoops okay
I'm so sorry there's so many questions I
have to participation it makes it so
much easier that I just I have questions
okay walking some use this you need to
find several emails to professors
certain way of research my view was for
a 680 what are my chances in University
for me
you have great chances um as I said top
top 10 universities would probably be
seven hundred plus but if you look at
for example mi t--'s MBA program and if
you look at how much people score on
their GMAT you will see that actually
there are a lot
people who score below 700 their median
like the majority of students would
score 7710 120 but there are also
students with scores had 650 and still
got accepted those people are the
minority but still you have your chances
so definitely apply Oh hikes from
Hungary thank you hungry
my nationality is Russia please guy uh
guide about making statements of
purposes Nikki's asking for that
actually have the whole video with our
American teacher Walker on my channel so
if you just google motivation letter
lingua marina you will see that video at
the most important thing about your
statement of purpose is your story so
make sure you tell a particular story
like um let me let me give you an
example
like if you want to study economics what
I told my motivation letters I told that
at the age of five I was building my own
little shop in my bedroom and I was
selling my parents chewing gums and
sweets because I really liked making
money and I grew up and I became an
entrepreneur so tell those small stories
that really affected your personality
and affected your choice of the subjects
you wanna study is it necessary to get
high as going to pull other
[Music]
the cheer me up we need you're talking
100 it doesn't matter if you get a
hundred twenty just get that 100 and
you're good when we're talking about G
every it's better to have yo Jerry as
high as possible so for example if they
say we're not going to accept people who
have Jerry lower than 300 then make sure
you score I don't know 320 so the higher
the better
okay guys about this personal advice
like working the advice with financial
aid with lower and ranking I would say
vicino University University of Florida
but it doesn't make sense because if you
want to get some personal advice I do
personal consultations you can find them
on language of comm you can see my photo
and book a consultation with me but you
know just choosing randomly a university
that would fit your needs out of three
thousand hundred three thousand
universities in the States
just by seeing one sentence from you is
really tough and I don't want to direct
you to our own University so if you
really need that personal advice we can
definitely chat on skype it's 15 minute
consultation where you can tell me
everything about yourself and I tell you
what I think based on my experience
based on my work with the universities
and you if you want to book that go to
lingua trip.com
I think there's a there's a link below
you can find the link below click it
sorry my voice is getting lower because
I have been talking from 7 a.m. today
I'll show you guys I'll drink some water
you can ask more questions once okay so
yeah what is the minimum GPA for
application top universities I would say
are going to would be good anything
higher is better but the average I think
the average for MIT would be 3 point 4
humans six look at the average class
profile and you would see with the
average GPA be four and program that
you've chosen do you think it's better
to do for year four year at your home
country and after go to the UN three
this is a question from seda um say you
know this really depends on it how you
feel right now if you're able to take
those exams right now if you your
English abilities high enough to go
through the application process then I
would definitely say girl go as early as
possible because there are so many
things in our lives that can change in a
couple of weeks and maybe I don't know
you meet the person that you love and
who would tell you that he doesn't want
to travel abroad he wants to stay there
or you find a job of your dreams and
then you can never you know exercise
your dream of studying abroad so if you
have this chance go as early as possible
because later you might not have this
chance but if you feel that you're not
ready right now
then there are certain advantages of
getting your master's degree in the
States instead of getting the bachelors
degrees because master's degrees are
better financed so there's a bigger
chance that you can get some kind of
financial aid or work to your studies
and another thing master's program is
just one year and after you graduate you
can get this opt for one to three years
to work in the States the bachelors
program are always four years and it's
very difficult to get any kind of
financial aid so I don't know it's it's
up to you to decide but here here are my
two cents of it on this situation
um yeah shall should we uh I hope I'm
pronouncing your names well please talk
about benefits of doing masters of MBA
from India okay master's program are
then you know they are very I'd say
technical and practical so there's a lot
of science involved MBA programs are
longer so they're 2 years compared to 1
year masters and during the MBA program
you do a lot of network
so basically MBA is about networking and
some fundamental knowledge and in
economics while masters is dis
conscience concentration so for example
you do mass just you would do a lot of
financial subjects but last not working
so I would say I don't know really
depends on what you're going to do next
if you're going to work for the best big
PwC swords company then MBA would be
essential to get promoted if you want to
do something different then maybe it's
just masters so that's that's the main
difference one no research what if my oh
sorry it's gift again sorry got so many
questions
[Music]
okay masters what um what about
transferring from middle rank
universities sort of American
universities you can definitely do that
if you're if you're talking about a
middle ranked university in America you
can transfer the problem would be they
would still consider your SAT there was
so look at it because I say T is valid
for your whole life and the second thing
they might not be able to transfer some
of your credits because the program in
lower ranking university might not be as
difficult as in in top universities so
maybe you wouldn't need to study a
little longer than four years then oops
adds guys no adds please may be able to
get into US university if I got 1,300 on
SAT yes why not it's a good score if
it's a if it's this new grade and marina
I'm going to appear for the sale to
apply for the second time for f1 o f1
visa okay up on Mesa is the visa that
you get as a student to study in the
United States and yes you can get
rejected so you get accepted to MIT or
Harvard or Stanford there is
99.9% chance that you will get your visa
without any problems because Canon
accepted to such a university is a huge
accomplishment and USCIS understands it
and I haven't really heard about the
stories people getting into top
universities and getting their visa is
checked it but then there are local
stories when you get in this low ranking
college and you get your visa rejected
because USCIS guys think you've just
applied to this university or college
just to get your student visa just to
get this chance to get into the States
work illegally and you don't really care
about your education because it's lower
ranking University and also it's logical
to think why aren't you applying to
universities in your country that are
even better than that college in the
United States so you would need to
explain if it's a you know if it's an
average college you really need to have
a strong story why that college and I
would say make emphasis on people that
work in that college maybe you know a
professor who's working there and who is
doing some particular research that
cannot be found anywhere else and that's
why are you applying to that college so
really justify your choice and if you've
already had this f1 visa refusal I would
say change the college and apply to a
better University that would justify
your choice of studying in the States
and also being in your home country and
also make sure like that you your
financials are good that you have all of
the requirements a whole field like
having this bank statement with enough
money masters in marketing
what no question hello hello Paul
actually I was in Moscow - setting
masters my question is do you know
University with a low out of state
tuition where I can be admitted from
master studies without GRE or GMAT check
out scrunch and university this is where
I applied for my MBA this was my was
that safety school and they didn't
require GMAT they had a me program they
also have master's program and they
provide food for full financial
assistance they have a lot of ships
so check
I didn't fur
you
average age average age for every kind
of before
you
they just switched off okay do you hear
me uh where did I stop okay I was
talking so much
that's so weird they just switched off
the sound okay um
yes yes yes yeah I'm back okay where did
I stop you can rewind yes now okay a
long time ago okay 79 is picado
yes right experience like several
minutes okay hmm okay let me just
continue with the questions we have 8
more minutes guys
I'm sorry for the connection for
computer switching off sound really but
we will make more sentence like this
it's just today I'm an MIT and I really
wanted to talk about those top
universities in the States but I'm sure
we're going to make more alive students
where you can ask questions as well and
I'm going to leave this one on the
channel hmm okay let's see yeah if we're
talking about financial aid and getting
financial aid to study topic
universities are really the best because
they are the richest but you still need
to make sure that the university you're
applying to the program you're applying
to additional assistance because if you
ask some university you tell me you know
like we don't provide full full
financial assistance you know look for
other sources of funding so the best way
to make sure is to write to every single
school that you're applying for and ask
them whether they provide full financial
assistance and this is a lot of research
this is a lot of work because it took me
in more than a month to figure out the
schools that provided full financial
assistance and it required a lot of
emailing back and forth and asking
for information on financial assistance
so yeah another question is it possible
to enter MBA without work experience
straight up to bachelors yes it's
possible and I wasn't this Harvard MBA
session and I said they have many
students who don't have work experience
went straight into MBA after that
bachelor's program but again make sure
that the university you're applying to
has this option because some
universities will tell you no it's a
strict rule you need to have at least
two years work experience some
universities would say we don't care how
is the intrapreneurship environment
different between MIT and Stanford
really good question well place do you
prefer to race me language if you're
accepted into both places
okay I'd say they are different MIT is
more about you know technological
innovation changing the core of what's
happening like changing DNA's inventing
new algorithm inventing new technology
Silicon Valley and Stanford I think is
more about applying though that
technology bringing it into lives of
more people so in MIT they would care
more about how you advance the practice
in Stanford they would care more how
many people are affected by what you're
doing and how fast you grow um so it
really depends where your interests lie
and I think you can be part of both
communities either studying at Stanford
because they have a lot of kaity and MIT
has a lot of common projects since with
Stanford they even have this program
where you travel to the Silicon Valley
and do all the you know visits to big
companies I think the back works for you
is to attend the webinars that are
conducted by both programs and interact
with graduates find them on LinkedIn ask
them questions find how many students
started a startup after graduating from
particular MBA
okay do you need work experience for MIT
or Harvard MBA it would be better if you
have it you don't I think you don't need
to have it it's not a requirement but
again if you go to MIT Sloan MBA
requirements you can check it out and
see what's the average class profile
right now it's the acceptance rate below
for Indian students in the US for stems
courses I'd say it's really competitive
because there are too many students with
stem background applying to US
universities from India but if you're
outstanding and you should make sure
that you present yourself as outstanding
then you have the chance
hmm good questions from from Daniel he's
asking if he already has masters from
his country
can he get into some US University with
the same such subject I'd say yes the
only thing you need to do is justify
whether you need to justify why you're
getting the second degree in the same in
these exact same subject and I would say
if we're talking about economics then
you can tell that the United States is
where the majority of economics work was
invented and you really want to set
economics in a country where it's in the
most advanced stage or if you're talking
about computer science again the MIT is
the leading school for puter science
then just tell them hey yes I already
have basic knowledge in that and I went
to this university but I think there is
no better place in the world than MIT to
study computer science okay hey guys I'm
gonna take a couple last questions and
then just see some of the schools and to
film more videos for you too and okay
I'm already enrolled in master's program
in Europe I have less chance of getting
into Tapia's University in u.s. when
they think something like oh he has
already placed you well
you have already started that program
you have to justify why you're
transferring to a new one or why you're
playing for a new one if you haven't
started the program yet then you don't
have to talk about it at all just apply
to the program and that's it they would
never know whether you're enrolled in an
either master's program or not unless
you report it okay let's let's take this
last question masters in marketing I
think I should I should make a separate
video on that because it's a long topic
this is something I have applied for
should I take help of consultant
applying for masters um I would say if I
had somebody like me when I was applying
I would definitely take some help
because it took me around two months to
you know just to understand the whole
process and there are so many subtle
things that you don't really know unless
you go through them like how to write a
letter to the admissions committee or
how to pass an interview and what are
the best resources to find the answers
to questions or what are my chances how
do I assess my application so I would
say um yes I would take consulting but
really make sure it works with all the
variety of schools like for example I I
don't work it's kind of I don't work
with universities that fami commissioned
I don't do Commission based
consultancies I just work for what the
schools that are best for you so if you
say you want to apply for Harvard to
Harvard or MIT then we would research
those options and I've had a lot of
students who to consultation with me and
who said you know I went to this
consultant and he said that I'm gonna
charge you two thousand years girls and
I'm gonna enroll you to this particular
University and they wouldn't give any
other options and that happens because
that particular University would pay
some commission to that consultant and I
think that's unfair for students to work
with such a consultant which is doing
that for money and I'm sure that a
consultant and you work with has to work
with all the universities that are
better for you okay I think that was it
if you won a private consultation
there's a link somewhere on
website there's a link below to the
linguae trip and you can book this
private consultation thank you so much
guys for joining me in MIT today I was
really honored to talk to all of you to
answer all of your questions don't
forget to subscribe to my channel if you
haven't already subscribe and follow me
on Instagram because a lot of
interesting things that happen in
Instagram yesterday I was in Harvard and
I was posting my pictures from Harvard
and MIT so here's the here's my
Instagram it's a lingua Marina and
follow me there and let's stay in touch
and if you follow me there you won't
miss another life livestream and you
will be able to ask your questions
online okay thank you so much have a
great day have a great evening wherever
you are and hugs from MIT bye bye